README.md, before:

# HASE
Framework for efficient high-dimensional association analyses.

## Installation HASE

1. Navigate to directory where you want to install HASE and clone this repository:
     ```
     git clone https://github.com/roshchupkin/hase.git
     ```

## Installation requirements

Your system might already satisfied requirements, we suggest first try to run test example from Testing header below. 

1. HDF5 software (python packages `tables` and `h5py` require this installation). If it is not installed on you system, 
you can download to your home directory the latest source code [hdf5](https://www.hdfgroup.org/ftp/HDF5/releases/hdf5-1.8.16/src/).
    ```
    tar -xf ~/hdf5-1.8.16.tar.gz
    cd ~/hdf5-1.8.16/
    ./configure 
    make 
    make install
    ```
    Then you need to add one line to your `.bachrc` or `.bash_profile` file in your home directory.

    ```
    export HDF5_DIR=~/hdf5-1.8.16/hdf5/
    ```

2. BLAS and LAPACK linear algebra libraries for `scipy` and `numpy`. 
     ```
     sudo apt-get install gfortran libopenblas-dev liblapack-dev
     ```
    If this does not work or raise errors, then you might need to follow instruction from [scipy](http://www.scipy.org/scipylib/building/index.html) website. 

3. You need to install python. You can download python from official website [python](https://www.python.org/) 
or install one of the python distribution for scientific research, such as [Anaconda](https://store.continuum.io/cshop/anaconda/),
[Enthought Canopy](https://www.enthought.com/products/canopy/) or [Python(x,y)](http://python-xy.github.io/).
And then you need to install (or first uninstall) `scipy` and `numpy` python libraries.
     ```
     pip install scipy 
     pip install numpy
     ```
 
    To check linkage in numpy:
      ```
      python
      >>> import numpy as np
      >>> np.__config__.show()
      ```
  
    And you should see something like this:
  
      ```
      lapack_opt_info:
        libraries = ['openblas', 'openblas']
        library_dirs = ['/cm/shared/apps/openblas/0.2.9-rc2/lib']
        language = f77
    blas_opt_info:
        libraries = ['openblas', 'openblas']
        library_dirs = ['/cm/shared/apps/openblas/0.2.9-rc2/lib']
        language = f77
    openblas_info:
        libraries = ['openblas', 'openblas']
        library_dirs = ['/cm/shared/apps/openblas/0.2.9-rc2/lib']
        language = f77
    blas_mkl_info:
      NOT AVAILABLE
      ```  
     
4. Install python packages listed in `requirements.txt` file. (you can use package manager which comes with your python `pip` or `conda` to install packages):
    * bitarray
    * argparse
    * cython
    * matplotlib
    * scipy
    * numpy
    * pandas
    * h5py
    * tables

## Testing

1. Navigate to HASE directory and type `python hase.py -h`, you should see help message.
2. Navigate to HASE directory and type `sh run_ExampleStudy.sh`, it should start running toy example of high-dimensional GWAS.
 
## User Guide
[wiki](https://github.com/roshchupkin/hase/wiki).
## Requirements
1. HDF5 software.
2. BLAS and LAPACK linear algebra libraries.  
3. Python. 
4. Python packages:
    * bitarray
    * argparse
    * cython
    * matplotlib
    * scipy
    * numpy
    * pandas
    * h5py
    * tables
5. [Git](https://git-scm.com/).


## Citation 
If you use HASE framework, please cite:

[G.Roshchupkin et al. HASE: Framework for efficient high-dimensional association analyses. 
BioRxiv, 2016.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1101/037382) 

## Licence
This project is licensed under GNU GPL v3.

## Authors
Gennady V. Roshchupkin (Department of Epidemiology, Radiology and Medical Informatics, Erasmus MC, Rotterdam, Netherlands)

Hieab H. Adams (Department of Epidemiology, Erasmus MC, Rotterdam, Netherlands)

Commit message:

fix plink many files in folder

README.md, after:

# HASE
Framework for efficient high-dimensional association analyses.

## Installation HASE

1. Navigate to directory where you want to install HASE and clone this repository:
     ```
     git clone https://github.com/roshchupkin/hase.git
     ```
## Update HASE 

You can update HASE to newest version using `git`. Navigate to your HASE folder (where you cloned git repository):
    
    ```
    git pull
    ```

## Installation requirements

Your system might already satisfied requirements, we suggest first try to run test example from Testing header below. 

1. HDF5 software (python packages `tables` and `h5py` require this installation). If it is not installed on you system, 
you can download to your home directory the latest source code [hdf5](https://www.hdfgroup.org/ftp/HDF5/releases/hdf5-1.8.16/src/).
    ```
    tar -xf ~/hdf5-1.8.16.tar.gz
    cd ~/hdf5-1.8.16/
    ./configure 
    make 
    make install
    ```
    Then you need to add one line to your `.bachrc` or `.bash_profile` file in your home directory.

    ```
    export HDF5_DIR=~/hdf5-1.8.16/hdf5/
    ```

2. BLAS and LAPACK linear algebra libraries for `scipy` and `numpy`. 
     ```
     sudo apt-get install gfortran libopenblas-dev liblapack-dev
     ```
    If this does not work or raise errors, then you might need to follow instruction from [scipy](http://www.scipy.org/scipylib/building/index.html) website. 

3. You need to install python. You can download python from official website [python](https://www.python.org/) 
or install one of the python distribution for scientific research, such as [Anaconda](https://store.continuum.io/cshop/anaconda/),
[Enthought Canopy](https://www.enthought.com/products/canopy/) or [Python(x,y)](http://python-xy.github.io/).
And then you need to install (or first uninstall) `scipy` and `numpy` python libraries.
     ```
     pip install scipy 
     pip install numpy
     ```
 
    To check linkage in numpy:
      ```
      python
      >>> import numpy as np
      >>> np.__config__.show()
      ```
  
    And you should see something like this:
  
      ```
      lapack_opt_info:
        libraries = ['openblas', 'openblas']
        library_dirs = ['/cm/shared/apps/openblas/0.2.9-rc2/lib']
        language = f77
    blas_opt_info:
        libraries = ['openblas', 'openblas']
        library_dirs = ['/cm/shared/apps/openblas/0.2.9-rc2/lib']
        language = f77
    openblas_info:
        libraries = ['openblas', 'openblas']
        library_dirs = ['/cm/shared/apps/openblas/0.2.9-rc2/lib']
        language = f77
    blas_mkl_info:
      NOT AVAILABLE
      ```  
     
4. Install python packages listed in `requirements.txt` file. (you can use package manager which comes with your python `pip` or `conda` to install packages):
    * bitarray
    * argparse
    * cython
    * matplotlib
    * scipy
    * numpy
    * pandas
    * h5py
    * tables

## Testing

1. Navigate to HASE directory and type `python hase.py -h`, you should see help message.
2. Navigate to HASE directory and type `sh run_ExampleStudy.sh`, it should start running toy example of high-dimensional GWAS.
 
## User Guide
[wiki](https://github.com/roshchupkin/hase/wiki).
## Requirements
1. HDF5 software.
2. BLAS and LAPACK linear algebra libraries.  
3. Python. 
4. Python packages:
    * bitarray
    * argparse
    * cython
    * matplotlib
    * scipy
    * numpy
    * pandas
    * h5py
    * tables
5. [Git](https://git-scm.com/).


## Citation 
If you use HASE framework, please cite:

[G.Roshchupkin et al. HASE: Framework for efficient high-dimensional association analyses. 
BioRxiv, 2016.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1101/037382) 

## Licence
This project is licensed under GNU GPL v3.

## Authors
Gennady V. Roshchupkin (Department of Epidemiology, Radiology and Medical Informatics, Erasmus MC, Rotterdam, Netherlands)

Hieab H. Adams (Department of Epidemiology, Erasmus MC, Rotterdam, Netherlands)
